# Data Center sp20-516-233 Holly Zhang

:o2: attending markdown session mandatory

## E.DataCenter.2.b

The Maiden data center owned by Apple totals to 500,000 square feet of space and
is located at 5710 Startown Rd, Maiden, North Carolina [@www-datacenters]. 
During the construction of Maiden, Apple made efforts to curb environmental 
impacts by using recycled materials and reducing waste. About 14 percent of the 
materials used in the construction process were recycled materials and 7 percent 
of the construction waste ended up in landfills [@www-datacenters]. Apple also 
took the transportation of construction materials into consideration as part of 
the environmental impact. Materials purchased within 500 miles of the Maiden 
construction site made up 41 percent of the materials [@www-datacenters]. 

Maiden currently operates on renewable energies only. The total energy usage is 
broken down to 73% from solar energy and 27 percent from biogas fuel cells. The 
biogas fuels cells are operated by Apple, while the solar energy comes from a 
mixture of Apple's own solar panels and local energy companies such as Duke 
Energy. In 2017, these renewable energies provided 273 million kilowatt-hours to 
Maiden [@www-apple-environment]. Maiden also includes features for energy 
efficient cooling such as outside air cooling and water storage. Outside air is 
taken in when the temperature is cool and put through a waterside economizer 
[@www-apple-environment]. The cooled water is then stored for later use.

## E.DataCenter.4 Thermal

Thermal energy is the energy gained or lost by transferring heat from one place 
to another. In the case of data centers, thermal energy is often removed from 
the environment so the equipment can cool down. Data centers located in cooler 
regions such as Facebook's Lule√•, use naturally chilled air from the outside 
instead of air conditioning. The walls contain holes with specialized filters 
that clean the outside air of particles and moisture that may damage the 
equipment inside [@www-sustainability-facebook].   

Another form of thermal energy employed by data centers is using the earth 
underground to cool off pipes in a closed-loop system. This works off of the 
idea that the earth underground is cooler than the temperature above. These 
pipes carry water and/or coolant that take away heat from the data center and 
then dissipates the heat into the earth [@www-datacenterknowledge]. The liquid 
in the pipes is then reused in the closed-loop pipe system to take heat away 
from the data center and the process is repeated. Data centers that use this 
form of thermal energy include the American College Testing data center and 
Prairie Bunkers Data Center Park.

## E.DataCenter.5

Google is one of the top purchasers of renewable energy with its multiple 
contracts that purchase a total of three gigawatts of energy in 2018 
[@www-google-renewable]. When creating contracts with renewable energy 
companies, Google has helped create wind and solar farms in areas near their 
data centers. In areas where access to renewable energy is prohibited for 
Google, Google works with organizations such as the Re-Source Platform and the 
Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance to open up that market. Though Google still 
uses fossil fuels in its operation, in 2017 Google used more renewable energy 
than energy obtained from fossil fuels [@www-google-renewable]. The majority of 
their renewable energy comes from wind, while solar makes up a smaller portion.

## E.DataCenter.8

On December 27, 2018 CenturyLink, a telecommunications company, had an outage 
that lasted about 37 hours [@sdxcentral]. This outage caused multiple services 
to stop working such as television services provided by Comcast and phone 
services from AT&T, Verizon, and 911 emergency. Although no one was harmed due 
to the outage, it is estimated that at least 866 emergency calls were not 
received and 17 million people in 29 state could have gone without emergency 
services [@sdxcentral]. When considering other phone services, at least 
12,100,108 calls were dropped. The outage overall is said to have affected up to 
22 million people in 39 states [@sdxcentral].  


